In this video, I'll explain how to read a string from keyboard, a string that is form using character
array.
So already I have explained you a string can be formed by using character array as well as it is a class.
We will learn about the class later on.
Let us see how to read a string from keyboard.
So here I have a character area of size 20.
So this will be an array of characters.
It can hold up to 20 characters, as we know very well that we need a/0 space for slash zero that is
null character.
So total 19 alphabets can be stored in this character.
Now, here, I'm trying to read a name of a person or name of a user.
So here I have given a message.
So it's a good practice to give a message before taking input so a user will know what you are asking
for.
So see in SE this will read a string from keyboard and it will store it in this array.
Suppose I will draw an array here.
Suppose this is an array as of size 20.
So I take few spaces.
Suppose from keyboard.
If you are entering name like john, then it will be stored like this.
J o.
H n.
And followed by that null character will automatically be included.
So we don't have to mention we don't have to type this anywhere.
Automatically null character will be included.
So all the functions built in functions of C++ will follow this method that whenever we are dealing
with the string, it will include slash zero.
So out of this 20 spaces only zero one, two, three, four.
So total five spaces are used and these spaces are vacant.
You type any name from here, enter from the keyboard and hit enter.
So all those alphabets will be stored followed by null character.
Now there is a problem in this method.
So the problem is if you are writing full name, having more than one word, or if you're typing a sentence,
then this will read only first word.
Suppose I want to enter a name that is Steve Jobs.
Right.
So I have to type.
Steve, then space, then jobs.
So after this space it will treat this as another string.
So it will take only the first string.
That is first word.
It will not take the words how to handle this one.
So for this there is another method of reading a string.
So for that here I have an example.
I have taken a large size array of size 50.
Then here I'm asking for a name.
Then see, this object is having a function build in function called get as well as there is a function
called get line.
You can use any of these functions and as is an array you have to mention and this is the maximum number
of alphabets you are expecting from keyboard as input.
This is the maximum number.
So you can give any larger number though you can enter less number of alphabets also.
But you have to mention what is the maximum number beyond 50?
It will not take the alphabets beyond 50.
Even if the array size is larger, it will not store.
It will take maximum 50 alphabets from keyboard.
So here if I type Steve Jobs right.
So it will store both the words if I add more words to this one.
Also it will include them in a string, but maximum 50 alphabets.
If you give more than 50 alphabets, then it will take just 49 alphabets plus null characters.
So total 58 will take the next thing.
If I say C out, then it will print a string.
So C out will display a string.
Whether this one or this one, this this first string or the second string, whatever it is, c out
will print all the alphabets one by one.
So here I have an example.
So I'm showing here it will print all the alphabets until it reaches slash zero.
So here the built in mechanism C in as a string character at the end of a string and see how it will
print all the alphabets until it reaches null character.
So here if you write C out s, then this will print all the alphabets till it find another character.
So let us see the demonstration for this one.
So I'll show you how to read a name and how to read name with multiple words.
And also, I will show you some more problems in this one.
So let us look at demonstration here.
I have a skeleton of C++ program readily available.
So now here I will declare a character type array as of size 20.
And first I will read a string that is name.
So for this I will say see out.
Enter your name.
I'll give you a space so that there should be a space after this word, then scene.
I'll read this.
Let us display it afterwards.
Say.
Welcome and give a space then se and also I will use and so what the program is going to do, it will
give a message into your name, then it will read the name from the keyboard, then it will display
the name and giving a message.
Welcome.
Whatever the name you have given, let us run it here.
I'll give the name as John.
So welcome, John.
It's working.
I'll run it once again.
Now, here I give the name Steve Jobs.
It has taken only Steve, so it's not taking second word of this name.
So that's it.
So the problem, I told you that this scene, a string, if you are taking a character type array,
then it will allow you to enter only one word.
Let us modify this program here instead of seen as I will see seen dot get as a rightmost 20 alphabets
write.
Let us run it now enter your name.
Steve Jobs.
Yes, it's working.
So it's taking both the words and storing them.
So it includes spaces.
So this, until you hit enter, it will take it as a string.
Here I will take some bigger size.
All right, I'll take the size as 100.
And here also, I'll take the size as a hundred.
Just randomly and type few words.
Right.
I'll run it.
I'm just randomly hitting some characters from the keyboard.
So a space.
BBW Space.
CC Then D, then E, then f Right.
So let us see.
I have given multiple words here, but multiple spaces.
So will it take or not?
Yes, it has taken.
So you can give a string up to any length.
So but you have to mention the length here.
But if it is 100, then it will take 99 alphabets and one place for null character.
Remember that.
Now let us use the function that is get line.
As I said this, I'll remove this line and type it again once again.
So scene dot get line.
So does the same function.
Even you can type, get or get line.
So same thing I use get.
Now this is a get line.
Steve Jobs.
Yes, it's working.
That's it.
Now let me show you the problem faced while reading strength from the keyboard.
So for that, first of all, I will change this function from get line to just get right.
So we will be facing problem here when you use it.
So I will create one more array that is of size hundred.
For a string.
Now, here in this in these lines, I'm reading a string from the keyboard and I'm displaying it with
a welcome message.
So I'll copy this and I will page the same code again.
And this time I will read it for string two as to.
Right.
So same thing is happening once again for string to so I'm first time reading for string one then again
doing the same thing with String two.
So enter your name.
I'll give a message like this and do your name again so that you can differentiate.
So first time under your name, second time and name again and I will run the program.
And you see the problem here.
I'll enter the name that is.
Steve Jobs.
Oh.
It has taken a string.
It has given a welcome message.
And it is asking, enter your name again and saying, welcome, that's all.
Nothing else.
And this program ends with exit code zero is appearing in next line.
It's not asking for the second time though.
I have given get for two times.
This is the first time it is reading.
Second time it is not reading.
What is the problem?
Let us see the problem.
I'll change this function to get line.
I'll change this function also to get line both the functions.
I'll make them as get line.
Now let us run.
See.
I'll give them a a, then b, b, b, c, it has given a message.
Welcome.
A, b, b, b then now it is asking forget line.
It is working.
Forget it was not working.
So I'll give the name here DVD and F it's working so it get function.
It was not working with the get line function.
It's working.
What is the reason?
I'll change it again.
I'll show it.
Make it as get right now I'll run now I will show you the difference here I'm entering name a, b,
b, this is a string, right?
With two words.
Now I'm hitting enter.
So enter will not be taken by this get function.
It will not read that get right get function will not read enter key.
I'm about to hit enter so it will leave that slash PN because it is not get line function, it is just
get function.
So once I hit enter it will take the center string and enter will be taken by this second get function.
Just it will be having enter.
Nothing else.
So after Welcome Space, it will take entry to sprinting as two and that is two is nothing but just
enter.
Let us see.
That is new line.
Yeah, you can see that after Wellcome Space.
This programming code is coming in the next line.
This message is coming in the next line.
So that means this A and b, b, b is taken by fuss, get function and a new line that is enter is taken
by second function.
So this problem may be faced when you are reading multiple strings from the keyboard to avoid such a
problem, there is a solution.
So here, after reading first string and before eating second string, I'll give a function call that
is seen dot ignore.
So it will ignore any extra characters remaining after reading first string.
So it will.
Clear off slash RN, then this function will be reading a fresh string and not find anything remaining.
So it will read a fresh string, right?
So it will clear off slash and or any other remaining characters in keyboard buffer.
So I'll run it once again.
Now you'll see it works perfectly.
I'll give them a B then.
Now it's asking and name once again.
C, C, c and.
Okay.
Yeah, it's working.
So that's all about reading a string.
So you have to practice this one.
Check it by yourself once on your machine.
Try it on your computer.
Right?
So in an ID, try it on your computer and about various other functions.
We'll learn them in next videos, that's all.